{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\margt1440\deflang1033\lndscpsxn
{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
}
{\fonttbl;
{\f0 Arial}
}
{\b\fs48 Ty-Intro\b0}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\cf1 [00:00:00]}
{ So, um, my name is Ty McDuffie. I'm the founder of Griot and Grits. And I think before I do my own personal interview, that maybe I'd give you a little background on the history of Griot and Grits and what it is. So, um, I think it is very beginnings. Was when I was visiting from, uh, the air }
{\cf1 [00:00:30]}
{ force, I was visiting my mother's house and I was doing what most young people do that have just left home and are coming back to visit or whatever.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I was, I was looking for stuff to steal and take back with me and I was in my, my sister's room and I stumbled on a notebook, kind of just a regular old ratty notebook like this. And because siblings have no privacy when I was growing up, um, I looked in it. And I noticed that there were notes that she had been writing to her unborn child.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And it was stuff like, you know, }
{\cf1 [00:01:00]}
{ Baby, I understand you're not here yet, and I'm young, and I'm scared, and I hope I do a good job. Those kind of messages to her daughter to just kind of let her know where her mind was at at that time and where her focus was. So that's the very, very beginning kernels of Griot and Gritz.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Then we fast forward many years, uh, to when my brother Sidney, aka Foot, passed away. And I had a dilemma at that point. Do I delete his old voicemails from my phone? Because everybody always says that you have to kind of }
{\cf1 [00:01:30]}
{ get rid of the past and move on. And I had found myself listening to his voicemails quite often.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, or, you know, or do I, so the other half of the dilemma was, do I just keep it? And, you know, and go back to hear from him every now and then, and ultimately I decided to keep it and I've listened to him quite a few times since then. The numbers of times that I listened to it have decreased a bit. Um, but I still will pull it out just to hear my brother's voice every now and then.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Then the third part of it was when my mother died just a few years ago. Um, }
{\cf1 [00:02:00]}
{ first of all, that was the hardest experience of my life. Um, but I was, Talking to one of her cousins, uh, Ms. Hazel and Ms. Hazel, you know, as we were talking, she was, and it had nothing to do with what I had been thinking about doing all those years.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And Ms. Hazel says, well, Ty, you know, when I'm gone, all the family history is gone because it's just me and my sister left from that generation. And so that right there put a, spark in me to at least preserve my }
{\cf1 [00:02:30]}
{ family histories. So what did I do? I did what everybody else does nowadays. I started a podcast called Real and Grits.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And that podcast was dedicated to, um, preserving my family history. And it also acted as a bit of therapy for me to kind of get the stories out about my family. And When I initially started, I was like, okay, well, let me help other people understand the importance of saving their history. Because like, for instance, with just losing a parent, you don't, }
{\cf1 [00:03:00]}
{ it's like, you don't appreciate how much and how, how much value and how important to you the stories that they used to tell were or are.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I wanted to introduce people to the concept of saving their stories as a, as a griot. Um, I wanted to introduce people to the concept of a griot. And, you know, and, and empower them to have griots in their own family. So we started doing that. Um, and my, my ultimate goal was to }
{\cf1 [00:03:30]}
{ create a searchable, what I was saying, because I didn't know I'm not a tech guy, was to create a searchable database of oral black family histories.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I mentioned it to a few people, mainly my friend Gerard, um, who is into AI and he was like, uh, there's so many ways that we can improve this and that we can make it more valuable and more appealing to so many more people, uh, to help them understand the importance of saving their history. So that's where it came from.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, initially from }
{\cf1 [00:04:00]}
{ me looking for something to steal in my mama's house to take back overseas with me when I was in the air force to a podcast. To now, um, partnering with different people and organizations to try to bring this, uh, to fruition. And there's several reasons why I won't get into all of that and bore you.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, at this point, I guess I'll just start with, uh, my interview. Thanks, and I hope I don't bore you to death.}
}