{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\margt1440\deflang1033\lndscpsxn
{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
}
{\fonttbl;
{\f0 Arial}
}
{\b\fs48 TY-IMG_1699 (2 of 4)\b0}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\cf1 [00:00:00]}
{ So again, my name is Ty McDuffie, founder of Griot and Grits. Um, I don't have a middle name. Uh, it is simply Ty or Tyrone McDuffie. Um, I was born in, uh, West Islip, New York, uh, in the county of Suffolk, um, in 1971 on April 22nd. I don't think I was named after anybody or }
{\cf1 [00:00:30]}
{ anything like that. It was, uh, probably because, you know, um, there were songs like float on where people would be like, my name is Larry, you know, and that kind of thing.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I think my mom just kind of was like, Hey, Tyrone is a popular name. You know, in the seventies, let me give them that one. Um, I don't have any nicknames that I, that I was given. I kind of tried several times to give myself nicknames, um, that didn't really stick. That never, that never works when you give yourself your own nickname.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I wanted to be called }
{\cf1 [00:01:00]}
{ at one time, bazooka Joe. Uh, from the old bubble gum wrappers. Um, I tried to be called Mac at one time. That wasn't, that didn't work, you know. So, I don't have any kind of nicknames at all. Um, so, back to my parents. Um, it's kind of complicated, but I'll try to make it as simple as I can.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, my mother, her name was Josephine McDuffie. Um, she was born in Ivanhoe, North Carolina. Um, she was raised }
{\cf1 [00:01:30]}
{ by Um, I think her grandmother, I, I don't know, my, my siblings might know a lot more, they will know a lot more than that, about that than I do. Um, and my father's name, which is the complicated part, is, uh, was Perry James Love.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, they weren't married when I was born and in fact he actually had, he was married to someone else. Um, and that's why I say it was kind of complicated, so much so that I almost, because I didn't even know he was my father }
{\cf1 [00:02:00]}
{ until. Um, I was well into high school. Um, he would come around and visit at the house sometimes, but I, I, I didn't know his relationship to me.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I just thought it was, you know, one of the, my mom's friends or something that came over to visit every now and then. Um, so yeah, um, it, it's, it's kind of just, just weird. I grew up a lot of my, spent a lot of my life really kind of trying to compensate for not having my father around. Um, Um, }
{\cf1 [00:02:30]}
{ you know, I wrote, I do a lot of writing and I've written a story about it, about how I would, you know, uh, make excuses, uh, for not having my father around, like, um, and I didn't know him, you know, I, I kind of painted him almost like a superhero who's, who's Whose only power was like being super busy and so busy that he couldn't come to anything that I was doing So I would always tell people he was traveling he was doing this he was doing that Um, and I remember a particular, uh story, um in high school once }
{\cf1 [00:03:00]}
{ I did find out who he was I was in class and it was right before a holiday break and we were in homeroom You know, they would release you from homeroom at like half a day or whatever and I was sitting behind this.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Uh, this student and he was And for some reason this day, I felt like I wanted to tell somebody, you know, Hey, I, you know, my, this is my dad, my dad is named this and, and this is what he does. And so I told this, this person that was sitting in front of me, I'm not going to mention his name because even back then he was a lot bigger than me and he probably still }
{\cf1 [00:03:30]}
{ is now.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I don't want to incur the wrath of this guy. Um, but I just, you know, told him, I was like, Hey, you know, this is my dad or whatever. Um, or actually, I had told him a couple of weeks before that, that who my father was, and he knew who he, who my father was, and um, I guess he, he didn't live far from him. So this particular day, sitting in class, I'm behind him, and he looks around and says, Mr.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Perjane ain't your daddy. So let me fill you in on some stuff in }
{\cf1 [00:04:00]}
{ the country. We don't really say, you know, the name, uh, correct, you know, like it's spelled. So Perry became per becomes per and James becomes Jean. So it was per Jean instead of Perry James. He says, so Mr. Per Jean ain't your daddy. And I mean, I was, I was floored, but you know, I'm a teenager now and there were girls around and all these other kinds of people.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So, I mean, I did whatever I could do. And, you know, I was like. You know, I retorted like shut up or }
{\cf1 [00:04:30]}
{ something like that or whatever, but you know, the damage had already been done and I mean, I couldn't, there's nothing I could do. I couldn't prove it. I couldn't do anything. And so I remember, um, when the class dismissed, I mean, before the class dismissed, I had put my head down on the desk because by then the tears were starting to come and I couldn't be seen crying.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I literally sat there with my head down on the desk until everybody cleared out to go catch the buses and I just missed }
{\cf1 [00:05:00]}
{ my bus home. Um, so it's complicated and I think it, uh, it has affected me throughout life. Um, it's given me, you know, like abandonment issues and, uh, what they call a people, people pleaser mentality.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Cause I'm always trying to find ways to make people stay. Um, so yeah, that was. Kind of the situation I was brought up in. Um, I don't know how they met. I don't know Anything about their }
{\cf1 [00:05:30]}
{ relationship before I was born Uh, don't even know much about it from after I was born, like I said, he would just come over every now and then and he would bring me like candy and sodas and I remember sometimes he'd bring over a big container of coins and he would let me just stick my hand in it and bring out as much as I could and I could keep whatever I had.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, he passed away a few years ago. I'm not sure what year anymore. I don't remember, but there's an interesting story about that as well. Um, }
{\cf1 [00:06:00]}
{ I grew up really, really hating him, uh, for most of my life. Well, once I found out who he was, well, before I found out who he was, I hated the person, whoever that might be, that was my father for not being there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But then when I learned who he was, I hated him even more for choosing not to be there and choosing to be with his other family over us and choosing his other kids over me. Um, And so one of the things I used to say, and I'm not proud of this at by any stretch of the imagination, but one of the things I would }
{\cf1 [00:06:30]}
{ always say was I couldn't wait till he died so I could go and just dance on his grave.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{That's literally what I would say. Um, so we fast forward a bit to he was on his deathbed, literal deathbed, in a hospital in Burgaw, North Carolina. And he had had a stroke, um, and so he couldn't move the left side of his body. He couldn't, he couldn't move at all. He couldn't talk. He was like, or he }
{\cf1 [00:07:00]}
{ was pretty nonverbal at the time, but he was aware of things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{He could look around and you could tell, you could look in his eyes and tell something was there. Me, being the person that was trying to win his favor and even in these last moments was, I was in the room wiping his head, you know, with a wet towel, just trying to keep him cool and, you know, trying to show him that I was there and it was me, uh, my brother Ricky, um, a couple of other siblings, I think, }
{\cf1 [00:07:30]}
{ and, you know, we were just standing around and I remember just starting to lose it, right?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{The tears were coming. I was wiping his head. I was just Thinking over my life without him and my brother, Ricky, he says, Hey, you know, everybody, let's give him a minute, you know, in here. So everybody walked out and so they walk out and I'm in there. It's just me and my, my father and I'm just wiping his head and I'm trying to talk to him a little bit.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And, you know, I didn't know what }
{\cf1 [00:08:00]}
{ to say. Nobody knows really what to say in that, that period. I was telling him, I know I told him I love him and those kinds of things. And I remember he couldn't move his left side, but he, you know, I was leaning down kind of whispering to him and he reached over and he kind of grabbed my arm and he pulled at me a little bit.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Nothing really forceful, but you could tell he was trying to pull me near him. And so I lean all the way down to him and I could, I could see his lips trying to move or moving a little }
{\cf1 [00:08:30]}
{ bit from the corner of my eye. But nothing really was coming out. Um, but at that moment, I chose to believe that was him, um, asking for my forgiveness.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I also chose to give that forgiveness at that time. Um, it, it, I'm not gonna say it didn't, it doesn't still sting that I didn't have a father around and, and, and those issues that I have because of it. But, you know, I feel as though we, we made, um, a positive stride at that moment. }
{\cf1 [00:09:00]}
{ Um, my mother, who was, My absolute biggest supporter, um, my first love, um, she passed away a few years ago and it's still really super, super hard on me.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, she was always the one, um, that was like, just had my back in all situations. It was a little, it wasn't like the real, my mom wasn't an overly sensitive kind of person, wasn't a touchy, }
{\cf1 [00:09:30]}
{ feely, huggy type person, but she showed love by doing things. She showed love by making the money and paying the bills and cooking dinner, uh, before she had to go to bed because she worked, uh, at midnight, um, at the, uh, textile place in our town.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, but you know, we all knew, um, how she felt about us and everything. And she was, she was a character, man. I remember one day she came out dressed for church, dressed to the nines. And she says, Well, I'm sure glad it ain't }
{\cf1 [00:10:00]}
{ fox season because those hunters will be after me and that's the kind of stuff she would always say but I think if You know, that's one of the funny stories.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I mean there another funny kind of story is I remember for years She had this old I can't remember what kind of car. I think it was like a some kind of old Buick from the 70s or 80s, early 80s or something like that. It was a used Buick. It had to be from the 70s. And the reason I know it was from the 70s is because it had an eight }
{\cf1 [00:10:30]}
{ track and she would play this eight track tape all the time.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I remember hearing her coming from down the road and it was that song war, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun. And she would just play that thing and it would be loud and she'd pull up in the yard. So that's one of the many funny stories I have of her. There's a load more, but I'm just not gonna, you know, bore you guys to death with all of those.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I think if there was one thing I could go back and tell them each about my life, }
{\cf1 [00:11:00]}
{ this is what those things would be. For my father, I'd want him to know that I forgive him. I forgave him a long time ago. And I've come to understand that being an adult doesn't mean that you make the right decisions or the best decisions.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It just means that you're older. And you're fumbling your way through life just like everybody else. And I understand that he made a decision to maintain his family, um, over, uh, }
{\cf1 [00:11:30]}
{ bringing me fully into the picture. Um, I think I kind of got leaked into the picture a little later in life, um, but I'm still, uh, you know, thankful, um, for him giving me life.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I'm, you know, I'm forgiving of what happened and all those things. And I made it out okay. You know, I have a few issues, but I made it out okay. Nobody makes it through life without scars. It just doesn't happen. So, }
{\cf1 [00:12:00]}
{ I would like to tell him that I'm okay. And with my mother, more than anything, I'd like to tell her thank you.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, for all those times when, you know, we were poor. We were poor, poor. And I remember her going to bed. She would make us dinner sometimes of like, Rice with a can of stewed tomatoes stirred in it with a little bit of butter, because that's all we had. And, you know, I want to tell her, and I remember her, she would give }
{\cf1 [00:12:30]}
{ me her food sometimes when I was still hungry, and I know now, looking back, that she was hungry too.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I'm thankful for those sacrifices, Mama. I'm thankful for, you know, you sucking up your pride whenever, back in the day, um, the, what did we used to call them? Not the, yeah, the welfare people. Would come by the house and they would make sure that there was no able bodied male in the house That could be working and bringing in money and stuff And I remember thinking mama I would tell them off if they were telling me what I couldn't do in my }
{\cf1 [00:13:00]}
{ house and what I couldn't You know couldn't have in my house And she never did you know because she knew that we needed those things to survive mama.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I'm thankful for You know you going out and getting free vegetables wherever you could and whenever you could now I hated Absolutely hated shelling peas half the day Shucking corn the other half of the day, but I sure did appreciate those meals. And if I didn't tell you enough, mama, I appreciate your strength, your resilience, }
{\cf1 [00:13:30]}
{ your willingness, your intelligence, my mother wasn't highly educated, but she was extremely intelligent.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I would tell them that mama, I'm okay. And you did your job. You helped me. Off to a better start and you were even given at the end of your life and I'm grateful for it Um brothers and sisters. Yes. There's a bunch of us. Um, there were eight of us Um, and i'll try to say their names in oldest to youngest.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I don't know }
{\cf1 [00:14:00]}
{ birthdays or I don't remember birthdays So forgive me. The mcduffie Uh, then it was Sidney, a. k. a. Foot McDuffie, I mean Sutton. Um, and he's the one that passed away a few years back. Um, there was, or is, my sister Joanne Bushra. She lives in Florida. Oh, and by the way, Nathan lives in New York. Um, then it's my sister Wanda Sutton.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{She lives in Wallace, North Carolina. Um, }
{\cf1 [00:14:30]}
{ my brother Bobby Sutton. He lives in Wallace, North Carolina. Dale Sutton, I believe is Leland, North Carolina. And then is my little sister Charmaine, um, Briggs. She lives in Raleigh, North Carolina. Um, if I was to think of their, you know, kind of describe them and start with a little bit of physical characteristics, I guess.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Uh, Nathan, we call him Monk. I always thought }
{\cf1 [00:15:00]}
{ he was like monk is kind of he's not super tall, but he's not super short, but he's very stout. He does. He's been doing like construction contracting work most of his life. And if I was to describe him, like his personality monk is probably the most patient of all of us.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I remember one time him taking me fishing. And one of my earliest memories of going fishing and, you know, not, not the earliest, but one of them, I love fishing. He would, um, }
{\cf1 [00:15:30]}
{ I thrown the line out or something, somehow it got all messed up and jumbled up. And I was like, Hey, you know, cut it. Can you cut this?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Can you cut this? I want to keep fishing. He made me sit there for quite a while and actually work the knots out of the line. And he could have let me, you know, cut it. Um, or he could have cut it, but I think what he was doing was showing me, you know, the patience to sit still and work through problems. So Nathan's big thing, I think, if I would }
{\cf1 [00:16:00]}
{ describe him, his personality, his patient, he's not a man of many words, actually, none of my brothers, except Sidney, talked a lot.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, and so when, when Nate would say something, um, you know, it carried a lot of weight, um, with it, cause he didn't, he just didn't say much. Um, Sidney.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Sidney Foote, his nickname was Foote. I think it comes from the fact that he always was a }
{\cf1 [00:16:30]}
{ karate person. He loved karate music. He loved fighting, those kinds of things. Funny story about him. Um, he, um, one time I had, I had blown out the motor in my, uh, Hyundai Sonata trying to like race my brother on the street in front of my mom's house.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And, uh, I guess I hadn't had the oil changed. And so it done. Some damage to stuff. So we had taken it to a neighborhood mechanic guy, um, to fix it. He was a family friend, but he had been taking like forever }
{\cf1 [00:17:00]}
{ to, to fix it. And I was without a car. So I was bumming rides here and there, all that kind of stuff to get to him from work.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Plus Wallace is about an hour and some change from where I live. So. You know, I couldn't get down there to check on it or anything. Now, at this time foot was on, he had gotten, I think it was COPD when he was in the military, so he was on like an inhaler and stuff, but remember I said he loved to fight and he would tell me, man, I'll go down there and I'll talk to him anytime, man, all I gotta do is take a hit of my inhaler and I'm on it.}
{\cf1 [00:17:30]}
{ }
{\pard  \line \par}
{And so, you know, of course I would talk him down from it, but he would go down there and talk. He wouldn't never do any of those kinds of threatening things, but. You know, he was always all about family and always wanting to take care of everybody and be their protector. So I would say for the most part, um, Sidney aka Foot was, he was a protector of family.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You know, it was always family first with him. If we went to Wallace, he'd want to sit down and play Scrabble, which he'd never win and he would cheat at, but he }
{\cf1 [00:18:00]}
{ always just wanted to have that family time together. Um, Joanne. Joanne is like the mother, the second mother of the family. Um, and I always tell Joanne if she laughs in front of people and they don't feel uplifted or feel better, then they don't have a soul.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Because Joanne is like, she's, she's the greatest person. I mean, just, she's feisty as all get out, but she's just the sweetest, happiest person you ever meet. She has the most positive outlook on }
{\cf1 [00:18:30]}
{ things. Um, if you're ever feeling down, call Joanne. So I think that would describe her. And she's very small.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Joanne is like maybe five, two, five, three, somewhere in like that. She'll get so mad at this, but I'm gonna tell it anyway. And one year she was mad because her job had asked, it was Christmas time and they literally asked her to dress up like an elf and she refused to do it. So, um, she kind of got upset about that, but that's Joanne.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, Wanda, Wanda is, is }
{\cf1 [00:19:00]}
{ awesome as well. Wanda is different. Wanda is one of those, she's a free spirit. If one, we would, I remember waking up some days in Wallace and everybody's like, where's Wanda? I don't know. Where's Wanda? I don't know. And we get a call from my aunt's house in New York. Wanda's here.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{We're like, we didn't even know she was, she was leaving, but that's how Wanda always has been. She's just been, you know, one of those people, if she gets something in her mind and she's going to do, she does it. And there's no talking her down from it. }
{\cf1 [00:19:30]}
{ Um, so now let's talk about Bobby. Bobby is, and I tell people this all the time, and I hope I don't upset my other siblings, but Bobby has always been my hero.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, Bobby's been the person that, as far as strength goes, strength of a person that I aspire to be. Um, Bobby gets, he would get knocked down a lot. He's gotten locked, knocked down a lot }
{\cf1 [00:20:00]}
{ in his life, but he always gets back up every single time swinging. And, you know, um, he's just, he's just been, uh, he's a force, he's a force.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{He makes things, makes them work. You know what I mean? And he's the most, like, I would say the most dependable out of all the siblings here, at least. Um, if you need something fixed, call Bobby. If your car breaks down, call Bobby. If you need, }
{\cf1 [00:20:30]}
{ uh, you know, a floor put in your attic, call Bobby. I did all those things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I mean, I've done all those things and he's always come through for me. And so again, Bobby's my absolute hero, man. And if you're watching this dude, I love you. And I thank you, Dale. Dale is the hardest worker I've ever seen in my life. Uh, Oh, but let me back up to Bobby. I forgot to tell a story about Bobby.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{One of my fondest, and it's not even a memory of }
{\cf1 [00:21:00]}
{ mine anymore. I have little bits and pieces of it is when we first moved to North Carolina. Um, I didn't know how to ride a bike. So Bobby was giving me a ride on his 10 speed and I was on the handlebars. You know how we used to do just riding on the handlebars and somehow some way my foot got stuck in the spokes of the front tire and the whole bike just flipped over.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And when Bobby tells the story now, he always says that, you know, he grabbed me to keep me from getting }
{\cf1 [00:21:30]}
{ getting hurt because he knew mama would be mad. But he always says, well, the minute you got up, you were like my shoe, my shoe. And he's like, well, I was all scratched up and everything. And all you could worry about was your shoe.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So that's just one of many funny stories about Bobby. Now, Dale, Dale, hardest worker I've ever seen. Um, and Dale's, he's not a, not a big guy. Never has been a big guy. And I think he's one of the happy, you know, he was always happy. They used to call him a smiley in high }
{\cf1 [00:22:00]}
{ school. He had the big Afro and everything.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I have a picture of him out in the front yard, picking out his Afro. Um, but Dale's another, another positive, um, one. They all, all of my siblings kind of look at life, um, in a positive lens. Through a positive lens. Um, so, but yeah, funny story about Dale, man, is if you ever need your stuff moved, if you're moving from one house to another, call Dale, your stuff ain't going to get there unscathed, but it's going to }
{\cf1 [00:22:30]}
{ get there because Dale does not waste time when he shows up to work, he's going to work and he's going to get stuff done and he's going to get stuff moved and your stuff's going to be packed like crazy in a truck, but it's going to get there and it's going to get there with dings and scratches and marks on it.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But. You know, it's not because of lack of his trying, you know, it was just how he is, how he works baby sister. Charmaine Charmaine is a beautiful, }
{\cf1 [00:23:00]}
{ feisty little spirit. Um, I mean, and I tell her all the time, I still think of her, like, in this picture I got of her when she was a little girl, she couldn't have been any older than, like, 3.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{She just had a cookie in her mouth. And that's how I still see her, even though she's Much older than that now, um, you know, with our own kids and things. Um, but Charmaine is just like, you know, she was always mama's baby. You know, the last one she, you know, the rest of us, like I'll tell about me, }
{\cf1 [00:23:30]}
{ for instance, I had to work in the tobacco fields and blueberry fields and cucumber fields and pepper fields and watermelon fields to make money, you know, to buy clothes and things, not Charmaine never had to do any of that, but Charmaine is.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{She's a survivor, you know. Uh, she's been through some things that have made her personality the way it is, but you know, underneath that hard fake exterior of hers, she's a really soft hearted, caring, loving person. Um, }
{\cf1 [00:24:00]}
{ I would think, well, we all know who mama's favorite one was, um, mama's favorite was Bobby.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And, you know, and I don't, I don't know why Bobby always got in trouble. Bobby always did crazy stuff. He was Bobby was like. the wild man of the family, but we all know Bobby was the favorite. I would say, well, it's a toss up between Bobby and Joanne, because Joanne was like the second mama, but Bobby was like, you know, }
{\cf1 [00:24:30]}
{ just that roguish boyish kind of, uh, young man.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So we all think we agree that, you know, Bobby was mama's favorite. Um, I don't know if we ever did anything crazy together because they were so much older than me. Um, me and Charmaine might have had a few stories, um, you know, like for instance we would trek around in the woods, me and some of my friends from my youth would trek around through the woods, you know, because we were in the country, that's what country people }
{\cf1 [00:25:00]}
{ do.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And we'd have an axe and we'd cut down trees and stuff and there would be this little snotty nosed little girl right behind us all the time. And I even remember one time we cut down this big tree because we were always talking about building forts and stuff. I don't think mama, my mama, or their mother knew what we were actually doing out there cutting down trees, um, and they never questioned us, never saw us take the axe, so I don't know.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But anyway, cut down this one particular tree and Charmaine was there, little snot nosed little girl, and the }
{\cf1 [00:25:30]}
{ tree started falling towards her and we were screaming, get out of the way! Move! She didn't move, and the tree hit, was like, quack, and it stopped like just a few feet over her head, it got caught up in vines and stuff, so.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So. Um, not only was Charmaine like, you know, strong willed or whatever, she was also very, very lucky. Um, so there wasn't a lot of crazy stuff that I can recall with my siblings. Um, have I been married before? Yes, I've been married one time. Um, I }
{\cf1 [00:26:00]}
{ married, uh, Sharon Burwell McDuffie. Um, she was born in Durham in 1968, February 18th, 1968.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, we actually met in, believe it or not, right before basic training for the Air Force. We were at the MEPS station where they do all the medical testing and all that kind of stuff. Um, we met there. Um, and then we got stationed at, for basic training. She was in one flight and I was }
{\cf1 [00:26:30]}
{ in the brother flight.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So we actually were right across the hall. Um, and so we, we saw them, you know, all the time. And the funny story about that is, um, she was actually trying to hook me up with some of her friends in her flight. A few of them like me, you know, because my boy is good looks. Um, a few of the friends liked me. Um, and so we were in church one Sunday and in full military gear.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And you know, you're not supposed to be talking with the sister flight and all that kind of stuff. So }
{\cf1 [00:27:00]}
{ apparently we figured out some kind of way to pass notes. And so she had passed me a note saying, okay, uh, these girls like you, which one do you want to talk to? Pass me the note. I did the smooth thing. I wrote you slid the note back.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{She did something that was unexpected by it to me. She sent me another note back and she says, I'm not an option. Checkmate. Or so she thought, you }
{\cf1 [00:27:30]}
{ know, um, so I guess you can see where it went. She didn't win that argument, but, um, yeah, um, that's how we met. That's how we, you know, uh, that's how we built the relationship.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I think, what first attracted me to her? I think if you're talking about physically, it was her smile. She had these little dimple type things that she would When she would smile that I just thought were the cutest thing ever. And I remember }
{\cf1 [00:28:00]}
{ when she went to Wallace to meet my mother for the first time, my friend, Chris was over there or he went there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I remember being on the phone with him. It's like, look at her smile. You see the dimples, check out those dimples, man. Ain't that cute? So yeah, that was the thing that attracted to me first, me to her first.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, the question is what made me fall in love with }
{\cf1 [00:28:30]}
{ her? That's a, that's a tough one. I think overall it was just her personality. Um, she was, you know, she was strong but humble. Um, and you know, she was beautiful to me anyway, but you know, she had so many of the qualities that I liked. Um, I think, so yeah, I would think that I fell in love with her because of, you know, }
{\cf1 [00:29:00]}
{ her strength, her vulnerability.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Yeah, so her career, um, she was, so we were both in the military. She worked in supply, um, which is like, you know, whenever anybody needed anything, you know, ordered around the base, they would go to supply or put in their order and supply would deliver it to them, whether that's machine parts or folders or what have you.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, my career }
{\cf1 [00:29:30]}
{ since we're here was, well, we'll get to that later. Um, her greatest career achievement, I think, was, um, well, let me back up, actually, because I didn't finish talking about her career. So she started in the Air Force. Um, when we got out, she worked, and I'm going to get some of these, I might forget some of these jobs, and I might not mention or get them out of order if I do remember them.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But she worked for this company called Enmarsh, um, in New Mexico, because that's where we were. And }
{\cf1 [00:30:00]}
{ she would, uh, take care of mentally challenged people like at night, um, or during the day, whatever the shift would call and do things like take them shopping, things like that. Um, she's worked at a Sam's Club, uh, like folding clothes and things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{She's worked at like a, um, a school or program for like troubled kids. Um, and, um, oh, oh, and she was an adjuster for Allstate, um, }
{\cf1 [00:30:30]}
{ a vehicle adjuster, insurance adjuster. Um, that's the only ones I can really remember right now. Um, as far as an accomplishment in her jobs, I think she would think or say that her greatest accomplishment Um, was winning, uh, some kind of award, um, in, oh, this is funny, um, while she was in the Air Force, um, and it's her greatest accomplishment, but it's also her, her most hated moment because what she won was a flight in like some kind of plane, a C }
{\cf1 [00:31:00]}
{ 130, I think it was, like a cargo plane, and you know, those things aren't smooth rides, so she was talking about how she was in the back of it, and the ride was so rough and so bad, and all she wanted to do was get on the ground again, And she was sick from that flight for like two, three days afterwards.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I mean like physically just sick. And so I think that's, that's, you know, and that's one of the funny stories, um, about her as well. Um, growing up, }
{\cf1 [00:31:30]}
{ um, did I have any sense of us being rich or poor? That's a very interesting, uh, part of the conversation. Um, I did have a concept of us being poor, but it was weird because everybody was.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{In my neighborhood, everybody was poor. Um, so it's like asking a fish if it knows it's wet. It doesn't know it's wet until it gets out of the water. And it's like, hey, I, I missed that, that wetness or whatever. }
{\cf1 [00:32:00]}
{ Um, or maybe I told that reverse, but either way, um, I, I, I kinda knew, but it didn't matter because everybody else was, um, I remember one of the first times I knew that we were really poor, um, was that, Mama had bought me a Washington Redskins jacket, um, from a yard sale unbeknownst to me.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And it was cool. It had like the leather sleeves and you know, it had the, the symbol, the logo on the, on the, }
{\cf1 [00:32:30]}
{ on the chest over there. And, and it was red and gold. And I remember wearing it to school one day and this guy, I'm not going to mention his name. He's like, Hey, that's my jacket. No, it's not. My mama bought me this jacket, man.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{This is my Redskins jacket. And he's like, let me, let me see it. And he opened, he took the jacket off and flip the tag up and you could see his name written in the tag. That's one of the, one of the first times I actually knew or felt poor. Um, and when I say poor, I }
{\cf1 [00:33:00]}
{ mean, you know, I, I kind of mentioned like what we would eat sometimes.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And, you know, I mentioned how we would work in the fields and all that kind of stuff. Um, I remember also there were times when we had to heat our house with the oven. You know, we didn't have central heat or anything like that. We didn't have Like kerosene at some points. Um, sometimes we would have natural gas and a little gas heater, but if we were out of gas, we would rent the house or heat the house with the electric oven.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And we would hang }
{\cf1 [00:33:30]}
{ sheets at the doorways of rooms that weren't necessary so that we could keep the heat in. Um, I also remember, um, when we first moved to North Carolina, we didn't even have a bathroom in the house and this is embarrassing to share, but it is what it is. Um, we actually had like a big bucket that we would use as a bathroom and we would take it and down like this dirt road and dump it in the woods whenever we were done until we were }
{\cf1 [00:34:00]}
{ able to get a bathroom built.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Um, because my mother had bought this house like many, many years before that. And it was like a one bedroom house. It was just like one room, not one bedroom, one room in the kitchen. Um, and my uncle actually built on more to it over the years. Um, I also remember we didn't have a, you know, obviously we didn't have a shower.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So we actually, this was kind of cool when I have pictures somewhere, there's somewhere somebody does anyway, on our clothes line, we would hang, uh, }
{\cf1 [00:34:30]}
{ sheets, you know, with the clothes pins. So we make a little enclosure and then we would have the water hose over it so that we could take showers. But, you know, a lot of times, uh, we would actually bathe in these little, you know, Tubs.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Yeah, it was kind of like, you know, it was, it was rough. Um, but you know, it is what it is. Um, I think we, you know, and, and in reverse we weren't perceived as poor by the other people, um, }
{\cf1 [00:35:00]}
{ uh, in the neighborhood because they were in the same boat as us. Um, I do remember though, um, there were friends that, you know, they would have sometimes even less than we had to eat.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Uh, I remember, you know, sometimes their breakfast would be a pack of these dollar cookies. Um, that you would get from the stores or that could be their lunch or a can of like little potted meat or Vienna sausages or those kind of things, but it was all normal to us It was all normal and nobody looked down on anybody else }
{\cf1 [00:35:30]}
{ Because of it}
}